# Meeting:  Monday 27 April 2026 12:00 UTC (2:00 p.m. CEST)

## Attendees: 

**Present:**  Andrea, Beatriz, Wout, Joshua, Yassir, Ben, Victor, Meem Arafat Manab.

**Chair:**   Nicoletta

**Scribe:**  Nicoletta

## Agenda

Dicussion of Open Issues with Label "Formal Semantics" https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues

Discussion of the format of the Evaluation Report

**Decisions**

#150 is accepted and can be closed, we agree to:  
-  Move the semantics of Conditions (Duties) close to the semantics of Permissions.  
-  Clarify which actions must meet which requirements.  
-  Include in the semantics of the conditions the requirement that must be fulfilled before the permitted action can be considered allowed.  
-  Check the notion of Condition of a Permission in the Reccomendation.  

Evaluation Report, we decided to:
- Correct the content of the report (column Evaluation Report);  
- Insert a link from the Rule Report to the Constraint Report;  
- Insert the value of the beahviour;    
- Add the satisfaction of Action, Party, Target and their refinements.  

#69 ODRL evaluator implementation report, this issue can be closed because it is resolved by the ODRL Evaluator input/output spec.

#67 we discussed that the [Landscape](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/tree/master/landscape) document is a useful but does not resolve this issue. We decided to keep the issue open with the "New Feature" label.  

**Dicussion**:

#70 The use of the "Set" type of policy was dicussed. 
For some participants it is strange that a policy without an assignee can be evaluated.
The issue remains open to discussion.
