# Meeting:  Monday 3 November 2025 12:00UTC

## Attendees

**Present:** Andrea Cimmino, Rodrigo Menéndez, Rui Zhao, Yassir Sellami, Renato Ianella, Joshua Cornejo, Nicoletta Fornara, Víctor Rodríguez
**Chair:** Victor      
**Scribe:** Victor  
**Regrets:** 

## Link to previous meeting notes

[Meeting Notes 02 DEC 2024](../2024/meeting-2024-12-02.md)

## Agenda + Notes

#### 1. Working Drafts   


#### 1.1 [ODRL Implementation Best Practices](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/bp/)
Owner: Victor  
Status: Early Review  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Implementation+Best+Practices%22)  


#### 1.2 [ODRL Data Spaces Profile](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-dataspaces/)
Owner: Rodrigo  
Status: Under Development. No presentation to be made within GAIA-X Event. 
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Data+Spaces%22)  
Notes: 

#### 1.3 [ODRL Temporal Profile](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-temporal/)
Owner: Ben  
Status: Close to Review  
Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Temporal+Profile%22)  
Notes:


#### 1.4 [ODRL Formal Semantics](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/formal-semantics/)
Owner: Nicoletta  
Status: In Progress  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Formal+Semantics%22)  
Notes:
 - Workshop held in December 2024
 - https://cosasbuenas.es/tmp/odrlmeeting/

 
#### 1.5 [ODRL Community Vocabulary](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/community-vocab/)
Owner: Beatriz  
Status: New  
Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Community+Vocabulary%22)   
Notes: 

#### 2. W3C Business

2.1. General Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AW3C)   
Notes:


2.2 W3C ODRL Model/Vocab Recommendation Errata: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/poe/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AErratumRaised)  
Notes: 

2.2 Industry Outreach: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AIndustry)   
Notes:

#### 3. Any other Business

3.1 New Collaboration Tools (Joshua): https://matrix.to/#/%23odrl:matrix.org
- Joshua showed the tool ("element") 
- Useful for (higher level) discussion of ODRL (not "issue" level)
- We can trial this now !
- Please all create an account and join the channels of interest

3.2 Workshop on ODRL and Beyond: Practical Applications and Challenges for Policy-Based Access and Usage Control (OPAL 2025) in conjunction with ESWC2025
- Workshop Website: https://opal-workshop.github.io/2025/ 
- Workshop Date: 1st-2nd June 2025


## Next meeting


Date: Monday 03 MARCH 2025

