# Meeting:  Monday 1st December 2025 12:00UTC

## Attendees

**Present:** Rigo, Pierre Antoine, Renato, Wout, Joshua, Yassir, Nicoletta, Ben, Vaggelis, Rui
**Chair:** Nicoletta     
**Scribe:** Nicoletta 

## Agenda + Notes

### W3C Business

Roadmap for the development of ODRL3 as a new W3C Recommendation: [ODRL3 Roadmap](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/odrl-roadmap/)

#### Organization of an W3C Workshop on ODRL in 2026.

W3C idea is to organize a W3C workshop [1] to gather the different interested stakeholders, identify the requirements and pain points, and plan the next steps. The goal would be to gather people from different backgrounds: researchers studying and extending ODRL, as well as people from the industry with concrete use-cases for it (see for example the CG on Right Automation for Market Data [2]).

[1] https://www.w3.org/events/workshops/
[2] https://www.w3.org/community/md-odrl-profile/

Possible locations: 
- Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (Andrea Cimmino)
- Ghent University (Beatriz Gonçalves Crisóstomo Esteves)
- Sophia Antipolis W3C

The W3C's idea is to support the creation of an ODRL working group ahead of the TPAC2026 meeting in Dublin.

The connections between ODRL and DCAT are crucial.
DCAT has a new Working Group ([Dataset Exchange Working Group](https://www.w3.org/groups/wg/dx/)

### Next meeting

Date: Monday 12 January 2026

### 1. Working Drafts   

There was no time to discuss the following parts.

#### 1.1 [ODRL Implementation Best Practices](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/bp/)
Owner: Victor  
Status: Early Review  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Implementation+Best+Practices%22)  
Notes: 

#### 1.2 [ODRL Data Spaces Profile](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-dataspaces/)
Owner: Joaquín  
Status: Under Development  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Data+Spaces%22)  
Notes: 

#### 1.3 [ODRL Temporal Profile](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-temporal/)
Owner: Ben  
Status: Close to Review  
Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Temporal+Profile%22)  
Notes: 


#### 1.4 [ODRL Formal Semantics](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/formal-semantics/)
Owner: Nicoletta  
Status: In Progress  
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Formal+Semantics%22)  
Notes: A [meeting](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/blob/master/formal-semantics/meetings/meeting-2025-11-24.md) happened on 24 November 2025. 
 
#### 1.5 [ODRL Community Vocabulary](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/community-vocab/)
Owner: Beatriz  
Status: New  
Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Community+Vocabulary%22)  
Notes: 

#### 3. Any other Business

- Collaborations with the "WebAgents Community Group" they inserted a link to ODRL in the Section "Policies, Norms, and Accountability" of their [Report on Interoperability for Agents on the Web](https://deploy-preview-105--w3cwebagentscg.netlify.app/#policies-norms-and-accountability)



