# Meeting:  Monday 01 SEPTEMBER 2025 12:00UTC

## Attendees
Wout Slabinck, Andrea Cimmino, Joshua Cornejo, Nicoletta Fornara, Ben Whittam, Elena Molino, Gabriel Huecas, Rui Zhao, Yassir Sellami, Víctor Rodriguez 
**Chair:** Víctor
**Scribe:** Víctor
**Regrets:** Renato

## Link to previous meeting notes

[Meeting Notes 09 JUNE 2025](meeting-2025-07-07.md)

## Agenda + Notes

#### 1. Working Drafts   

#### 1.1 [ODRL Implementation Best Practices](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/bp/)
Owner: Victor  
Status: Can be closed at any moment, but adding examples is still good. A new example is being discussed to better illustrate leftOperand.
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Implementation+Best+Practices%22)  
Invitation do discuss https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/111.
 
#### 1.2 [ODRL Data Spaces Profile](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-dataspaces/)
Owner: Joaquin  
Status: Open.
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Data+Spaces%22)  
No news.

#### 1.3 [ODRL Formal Semantics](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/formal-semantics/)
Owner: Nicoletta  
Status: Open, progress has been made.
Open Issues: [Github](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Formal+Semantics%22)  
Updates have been made (examples, Turtle, etc.), with great efforts in the state of the world and the evaluation request. Feedback is welcome at this stage, via email/issues, focusing on permission. Once discussion is mature, a meeting will be convened to fix the version.
 
#### 1.4 [ODRL Community Vocabulary](https://w3c.github.io/odrl/community-vocab/)
Owner: Beatriz  
Status: Open, progress has been made, connected to the state of the world.
Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Community+Vocabulary%22)   
Connected to the formal semantics. To check: https://spec.knows.idlab.ugent.be/sotw/latest/

#### 2. W3C Business

2.1. General Open Issues: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AW3C)   
Víctor will represent the group on Wednesday in a discussion on Community Groups if general. 

2.2 W3C ODRL Model/Vocab Recommendation Errata: [Github Issues](https://github.com/w3c/poe/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AErratumRaised)  
 
#### 3. On the Temporal Profile
Profile temporal (https://w3c.github.io/odrl/profile-temporal/)
Ben: the temporal dimension (version of policies, etc.) should be a critical part of the specification. Question is: which entities should maintain a temporal record? probably rules, policies and assets. Ben would be happy to get feedback on this spec. Not necessarily impacting the "formal semantics". Wout and Rui and others comment on the spec. The time when information is known is also relevant. Joshua: why not using directly DCAT versioning? 
Ben has an ontology for parties, for contracts. Ben is invited to share that work!
More open questions: how to link policies to data created on the fly, not yet identified with an identifier or described with DCAT...
 
#### 4. Report of the Dagstuhl meeting
Nicoletta reports that results of the Dagstuhl meeting will be available in the next few days/weeks.
https://www.dagstuhl.de/seminars/seminar-calendar/seminar-details/25271

   
#### 5. Any other Business
Elena Molino (Universidad de Sevilla) introduced herself.

## Next meeting
Mon 06 October 2025 at 12:00 UTC (2:00 p.m. CEST) (NF)
