# Meeting:  Monday 15 December 2025 1 p.m. UTC (2 p.m. CEST)

## Attendees: 

**Present:**  Nicoletta, Joushua, Andrea, Beatriz, Simon, Wout, Ben, Elena

**Chair:**   Nicoletta

**Scribe:**  Nicoletta

## Notes

Dicussion of Issue (Examples of formal semantics #135)[https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/135]

**Decision**, we agree that:

- Andrea will change the JSON-LD specification of the State of the World and of the Evaluation Request of the 6 examples of Permission.

For the odrl:compensate action only (examples C1 and C2), we must assume that when the duty to compensate is created within an agreement, it is necessary to generate a unique number as a reference (e.g., an invoice number). This number must be guaranteed to be unique within the generation system.
This unique number must be specified as a property of the payment at the time of execution.
We discussed that it would be better to avoid to require for every Constraint entity to have a UID.
   
- Nicoletta will change "Section 2. ODRL Evaluator" by making it coherent with the examples provided for Permission.

- Nicoletta will add a sentence to clarify that the ontologies used for the examples (state of the world and evaluation request) are only illustrative and other ontologies and expressions can be used but the results of the evaluation must be the same.

**Dicussion**:

- To ensure interoperability between different applications, it would be desirable to agree on a set of common basic parameters that are used to describe an action in the Evaluation Request and in the State of the World.

- Ontology for the evaluation report (the current proposal is similar to the one proposed here https://raw.githubusercontent.com/woutslabbinck/papers/main/2025/Interoperable-Interpretation-and-Evaluation-of-ODRL-Policies.pdf)
