# Meeting:  Monday 24 November 2025 12:00 UTC (1 p.m. CEST)

## Attendees: 

**Present:**  Nicoletta, Joushua, Andrea, Victor, Wout, Rui, Ben.

**Chair:**   Nicoletta

**Scribe:**  Nicoletta

## Notes

Dicussion of Issue (Examples of formal semantics #135)[https://github.com/w3c/odrl/issues/135]

Decision:

1. We agree that, as in example C1 and C2 (https://w3c.github.io/odrl/formal-semantics/#evaluation-of-conditions-duties) the duty must be fulfilled before the permission could be used.
In case it is necessary to express that the duty (associated with a permission) can be fulfilled after the permission has been used ( e.g. play the file and pay within one month), a deadline for fulfilling the duty must be introduced.

2. We agree that it is important to start collecting types of policies that cannot be expressed with the current version of ODRL 2.2. For example: 
   - The permission to get a copy of a digital resource (some data) together with a duty to delete it after two weeks (it is required to introduce a deadline for the duty).
   - Permission to reproduce a file only if, while the file is being played, an attribution message regarding the source of the file appears (it is necessary to represent an action that lasts for a period of time).

PROPOSALS:
- Start to discuss the semantics of a policy and a set of policy, there is the need to introduce the focus of the policy.
- Introduce state diagrams
  
MISCELLANEOUS:

- Beatriz, Wout, Andrea, Victor, and Nicoletta submitted a proposal for an ODRL Tutotial at ESWC 2026.
- Beatriz, Andrea, Victor, and Nicoletta submitted a proposal for an ODRL Workshop at ESWC 2026.

The next Semantics of ODRL meeting will be held on Monday, December 15, 2025, at 1:00 p.m. UTC (2:00 p.m. CET).

